# That have two type of Volume like one inside pod and second use outside pode like node lavel.
There are two types of Volumes:-
1. EmptyDir Volume:-
    This type of volume is created when a pod is assigned to a node and exists as long as that pod is running on that node.
    It is initially empty and can be used by containers in the pod to read and write files.
    When the pod is removed from the node for any reason, the data in the EmptyDir volume is deleted permanently.
Note:- Pod specific volume (Working on same pod)
    Use Case:-
        1. Temporary storage for data that needs to be shared between containers in a pod.
        2. Caching data that can be regenerated if lost.
        3. Storing intermediate results during processing.
    Limitation:- 
        1. Data is lost when the pod is deleted or restarted.
        2. Not suitable for persistent data storage needs.
        3. Limited to the lifecycle of the pod.

2. HostDir Volume:-
    This type of volume mounts a file or directory from the host node's filesystem into a pod.
    It allows containers in the pod to access files on the host machine.
Note:- Node specific volume (Working on same Node)
    Use Case:-
        1. Sharing configuration files between the host and the pod.
        2. Accessing log files stored on the host.
        3. Using host-level resources that need to be accessed by the pod.  
    Limitation:-
        1. Tightly couples the pod to the specific node, reducing portability.
        2. Potential security risks if sensitive host files are exposed to the pod.
        3. Changes to the host files can affect the pod's operation, leading to instability
        if not managed carefully.   

3. Persistent Volume:-
    This type of volume is a piece of storage in the cluster that has been provisioned by an administrator or dynamically provisioned using Storage Classes.
    It exists independently of any pod that uses it and retains data even after the pod is deleted.
Note:- cluster specific volume (means one or more node access possible)
    Use Case:-
        1. Storing databases or application data that needs to persist beyond the lifecycle of a pod.
        2. Sharing data between multiple pods.
        3. Backing up important data that should not be lost when pods are recreated.
    Limitation:-
        1. Requires proper management and provisioning by administrators.
        2. May incur additional costs depending on the underlying storage solution.
        3. Performance can vary based on the storage backend used.   
        
